Added support for DFU of wi-fi firmware patch (#14075)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/config_and_build/dfu/nrf70_fw_patch_update.rst

Reviewer: I think this guide should go into "working with nRF70 series" subpage. It should be mention under .../dfu page.
@kittydepa @annwoj

Author: So could you please show me the final location, I will move it there. Moreover, does it mean that the release notes should be placed in the nrf70 section?

* For the nRF5340 DK in a multi-core variant (with the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_2`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_2``.

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_adding_partitions:

Adding nRF70 series firmware patch partitions
---------------------------------------------

The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUBoot partitions (for the Application and Network Cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.

To add the required partitions for the nRF70 Series firmware patch update, complete the following steps:

1. Create a partition for the MCUBoot header. This partition should start from the first available address in the external memory space and have a size equal to the value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_BLOCK_BUF_SIZE` kconfig option.

   For example:

.. code-block:: console

    nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad:
        address: 0x12f000
        size: 0x200
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

#. Create the ``nrf70_wifi_fw partition``, which should start from the end address of the previously created MCUBoot header partition.
   This partition must have a size of 128 kB (0x20000).

   For example:

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer 2: Same for this code-block.

    nrf70_wifi_fw:
        address: 0x12f200
        size: 0x20000
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

> #. Create the ``mcuboot_primary_X`` partition, where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create the ``mcuboot_primary_X`` partition for MCUboot where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.

```
Empty line included to add a break.

   This partition should have the same starting address as the ``nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad`` partition, and a size of 132 kB + 200 B aligned to the device's sector size.

>    It includes both the MCUBoot pad and the nRF70 Series firmware patch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It includes both the MCUboot header and the nRF70 Series firmware patch.
```

   For example, the MX25R64 device has a sector size of 4 kB, so the following configuration can be used:

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer 2: Likewise for this code-block.

And I think I'll just stop adding this comment to each and every one of them. :)

    mcuboot_primary_2:
        orig_span: &id003
        - nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad
        - nrf70_wifi_fw
        span: *id003
        address: 0x12F000
        size: 0x21000
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

> #. Create the mcuboot_secondary_X partition, where X represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create the ``mcuboot_secondary_X`` partition for MCUboot, where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.
```

>    This partition should start at the address immediately following the end of the mcuboot_primary_X partition and have the same size as the primary partition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This partition should start at the address immediately following the end of the ``mcuboot_primary_X`` partition and have the same size as the primary partition.
```

>    This partition will be used to store the new nRF70 Series firmware patch during the Device Firmware Update (DFU) procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This partition will be used to store the new nRF70 Series firmware patch during the DFU procedure.
```

   For example:

.. code-block:: console

    mcuboot_secondary_2:
        address: 0x150000
        size: 0x21000
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

#. Update the ``external_flash`` partition to allocate all available memory space to it.

   For example:

.. code-block:: console

    external_flash:
        address: 0x171000
        size: 0x68F000
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

.. note::
    Please note that the actual configuration syntax for the Partition Manager will depend on the specific system and tools being used.
    The example provided is for illustrative purposes and may need to be adjusted to fit the actual configuration file format and syntax required by the Partition Manager in use.

Configuring build system
------------------------

> To enable the Device Firmware Update (DFU) procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, complete the following steps depending on the platform:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, complete the following steps depending on the platform:
```

* For the nRF5340 DK with the Network Core:

    1. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU`` Kconfig option to ``y``.
    #. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.
    #. For the MCUBoot child image, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.

For example, to build the sample with the DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch on the nRF5340 DK platform, which includes the network core image, run the following commands:

With west
^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    west build -d nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -d -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3

With CMake
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    cmake -GNinja -Bbuild -DBOARD=nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 sample

>     ninja -C build

Reviewer 3: Add steps for the nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code extension too.

> With west
> ^^^^^^^^^
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>     west build -d nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -d -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3
> 
> With CMake
> ^^^^^^^^^^
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>     cmake -GNinja -Bbuild -DBOARD=nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 sample
>     ninja -C build

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: West

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -d nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -d -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3

   .. group-tab:: CMake

      .. code-block:: console

         cmake -GNinja -Bbuild -DBOARD=nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 sample
         ninja -C build
```

If you want to use the :ref:`ug_multi_image` feature you need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DFU_MULTI_IMAGE_MAX_IMAGE_COUNT` kconfig option to ``2`` for the nrf5340 DK platform without network core or to ``3`` for the nrf5340 DK platform with network core.

Performing the update of the nRF70 Series firmware patch
=================================================================

> To perform the update of the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you can use all available DFU alternatives described on the :ref:`main Device Firmware Updates <ug_fw_update>` page."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To perform the update of the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you can use all available DFU alternatives described on the main :ref:`ug_fw_update` page."
```

The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUBoot partitions (for the Application and Network Cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.

To add the required partitions for the nRF70 Series firmware patch update, complete the following steps:

1. Create a partition for the MCUBoot header. This partition should start from the first available address in the external memory space and have a size equal to the value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_BLOCK_BUF_SIZE` kconfig option.

   For example:

.. code-block:: console

    nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad:
        address: 0x12f000
        size: 0x200
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

#. Create the ``nrf70_wifi_fw partition``, which should start from the end address of the previously created MCUBoot header partition.
   This partition must have a size of 128 kB (0x20000).

   For example:

.. code-block:: console

    nrf70_wifi_fw:
        address: 0x12f200
        size: 0x20000
        device: MX25R64
        region: external_flash

#. Create the ``mcuboot_primary_X`` partition, where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.

>    This partition should have the same starting address as the ``nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad`` partition and a size of 132 kB (0x21000), which includes space for both the MCUBoot pad and the nRF70 Series firmware patch.

Reviewer 4: this all assumes a sector size of 4KiB, not all devices have a 4KiB sector size

* The external memory is available and properly configured in the device tree.
* The external memory has sufficient capacity to accommodate the firmware patches.
  This includes additional space for potential patch upgrades, such as those required for DFU.
  The combined size of all firmware patches should not exceed 128 KB.
* MCUboot is enabled, and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option is set to ``y``.

Supported platforms
===================

The following platforms are supported:

* nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK as a shield

Preparing the application
=========================

The DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, when located in external memory, necessitates the creation of additional MCUboot partitions.
This can be accomplished using the Partition Manager by defining the necessary partition layout in the Partition Manager configuration file specific to your application.
For instructions on configuring basic partitions with the Partition Manager, refer to the :ref:`partition_manager` documentation.

The instructions in this guide assume you are using the Partition Manager and its associated configuration files.

> Defining nRF70 series MCUBoot partitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_mcuboot_partitions:

Defining nRF70 series MCUBoot partitions
```
Want to add a link to this section.

----------------------------------------

The number of MCUboot partitions required depends on the platform being used and its memory layout.
In addition to a partition dedicated to the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you will need to create specific partitions based on the platform.
For applications that are based on a single image, define a new partition with the number 1.
For multi-image builds, define the subsequent partition to follow the last existing one.

Below are examples of MCUboot partition names for updating the nRF70 Series firmware patch, which vary depending on the platform and the number of cores used:

* For the nRF5340 DK in a single-core variant (without the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_1`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_1``.
* For the nRF5340 DK in a multi-core variant (with the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_2`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_2``.

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_adding_partitions:

Adding nRF70 series firmware patch partitions
---------------------------------------------

> The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUBoot partitions (for the Application and Network Cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUboot partitions (for the Application and Network Cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.
```

#. Create the ``nrf70_wifi_fw`` partition for the firmware patch.

   This partition should start from the end address of the previously created MCUboot header partition and have a size of 128 kB (``0x20000``).

   For example:

    .. code-block:: console

        nrf70_wifi_fw:
            address: 0x12f200
            size: 0x20000
            device: MX25R64
            region: external_flash

#. Create the ``mcuboot_primary_X`` partition for MCUboot where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.

   This partition should have the same starting address as the ``nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad`` partition, and a size of 132 kB + 200 B aligned to the device's sector size.
   It includes both the MCUboot header and the nRF70 Series firmware patch.

   For example, the MX25R64 device has a sector size of 4 kB, so the following configuration can be used:

    .. code-block:: console

        mcuboot_primary_2:
            orig_span: &id003
            - nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad
            - nrf70_wifi_fw
            span: *id003
            address: 0x12F000
            size: 0x21000
            device: MX25R64
            region: external_flash

> #. Create the ``mcuboot_secondary_X`` partition for MCUboot, where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described previously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create the ``mcuboot_secondary_X`` partition for MCUboot, where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described in the :ref:`nrf70_fw_patch_update_mcuboot_partitions` section.
```

  The combined size of all firmware patches should not exceed 128 kB.
* MCUboot is enabled, and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option is set to ``y``.

Supported platforms
===================

The following platforms are supported:

* nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK as a shield

Preparing the application
=========================

The DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, when located in external memory, requires the creation of additional MCUboot partitions.
This can be accomplished using the Partition Manager by defining the necessary partition layout in the Partition Manager configuration file specific to your application.
For instructions on configuring basic partitions with the Partition Manager, refer to the :ref:`partition_manager` documentation.

The instructions in this guide assume you are using the Partition Manager and its associated configuration files.

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_mcuboot_partitions:

Defining nRF70 series MCUBoot partitions
----------------------------------------

The number of MCUboot partitions required depends on the platform being used and its memory layout.

> In addition to a partition dedicated to the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you will need to create specific partitions based on the platform.
> For applications that are based on a single image, define a new partition with the number ``1``.
> For multi-image builds, define the subsequent partition to follow the last existing one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to a partition dedicated to the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you will need to create specific partitions based on the platform:

* For applications that are based on a single image, define a new partition with the number ``1``.
* For multi-image builds, define the subsequent partition to follow the last existing one.
```

            orig_span: &id003
            - nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad
            - nrf70_wifi_fw
            span: *id003
            address: 0x12F000
            size: 0x21000
            device: MX25R64
            region: external_flash

#. Create the ``mcuboot_secondary_X`` partition for MCUboot, where ``X`` represents the appropriate partition number as described in the :ref:`nrf70_fw_patch_update_mcuboot_partitions` section.

   This partition should start at the address immediately following the end of the ``mcuboot_primary_X`` partition and have the same size as the primary partition.
   This partition will be used to store the new nRF70 Series firmware patch during the DFU procedure.

   For example:

    .. code-block:: console

        mcuboot_secondary_2:
            address: 0x150000
            size: 0x21000
            device: MX25R64
            region: external_flash

#. Update the ``external_flash`` partition to allocate all available memory space to it.

   For example:

    .. code-block:: console

        external_flash:
            address: 0x171000
            size: 0x68F000
            device: MX25R64
            region: external_flash

> .. note::
>     Please note that the actual configuration syntax for the Partition Manager will depend on the specific system and tools being used.
>     The example provided is for illustrative purposes and may need to be adjusted to fit the actual configuration file format and syntax required by the Partition Manager in use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note::
    The actual configuration syntax for the Partition Manager will depend on the specific system and tools being used.
    The example provided is for illustrative purposes and may need to be adjusted to fit the actual configuration file format and syntax required by the Partition Manager in use.
```

    1. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU`` Kconfig option to ``y``.
    #. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.
    #. For the MCUBoot child image, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.

For example, to build the sample with the DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch on the nRF5340 DK platform, which includes the network core image, run the following commands:
.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: West

      .. code-block:: console

        west build -d nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -d -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3

   .. group-tab:: CMake

      .. code-block:: console

        cmake -GNinja -Bbuild -DBOARD=nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 sample
        ninja -C build

> If you want to use the :ref:`ug_multi_image` feature you need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DFU_MULTI_IMAGE_MAX_IMAGE_COUNT` kconfig option to ``2`` for the nrf5340 DK platform without network core or to ``3`` for the nrf5340 DK platform with network core.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to use the :ref:`ug_multi_image` feature, you need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DFU_MULTI_IMAGE_MAX_IMAGE_COUNT` Kconfig option to one of the following values:

* For the nRF5340 DK without the network core: ``2``
* For the nRF5340 DK with the network core: ``3``
```
Please double check capitalization of kconfig (> Kconfig) and nrf (> nRF) in plain text parts in the document, as I see some discrepancies.

Author: I hope I changed all of them.

Performing the update of the nRF70 Series firmware patch

> =================================================================

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
========================================================
```

.. _ug_nrf70_fw_patch_update:

nRF700x firmware patch update
#############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This guide explains the available option for updating the nRF70 Series firmware patches that reside in the external memory using the Device Firmware Updates (DFU) procedure.

.. note::

>     External memory refers to the memory that is outside the SoC, for example, an external flash memory chip, or external non-volatile memory (NVM) chip, etc.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    External memory refers to the memory that is outside the System-on-Chip (SoC), for example, an external flash memory chip, or an external nonvolatile memory (NVM) chip.
```

Overview
========

By default, the patch is located in the on-chip memory as part of the nRF Wi-Fi® host driver code.
However, you have the option to store it in external memory, which frees up space in the on-chip memory.
If the patch is situated outside the SoC memory space, it will not be updated automatically during a regular firmware update of the application core.
In such cases, you must enable the DFU procedure specifically for the nRF70 Series firmware patch on your device.

To learn more about the firmware patch located in the external memory, see the :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_fw_patch_ext_flash` guide.

Prerequisites
=============

To use this feature, ensure that the following prerequisites are met:

* The external memory is available and properly configured in the device tree.
* The external memory has sufficient capacity to accommodate the firmware patches.
  This includes additional space for potential patch upgrades, such as those required for DFU.

>   The combined size of all firmware patches should not exceed 128 KB.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  The combined size of all firmware patches should not exceed 128 kB.
```

* MCUboot is enabled, and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option is set to ``y``.

Supported platforms
===================

The following platforms are supported:

* nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK as a shield

Preparing the application
=========================

> The DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, when located in external memory, necessitates the creation of additional MCUboot partitions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, when located in external memory, requires the creation of additional MCUboot partitions.
```

This can be accomplished using the Partition Manager by defining the necessary partition layout in the Partition Manager configuration file specific to your application.
For instructions on configuring basic partitions with the Partition Manager, refer to the :ref:`partition_manager` documentation.

The instructions in this guide assume you are using the Partition Manager and its associated configuration files.

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_mcuboot_partitions:

Defining nRF70 series MCUBoot partitions
----------------------------------------

The number of MCUboot partitions required depends on the platform being used and its memory layout.
In addition to a partition dedicated to the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you will need to create specific partitions based on the platform.

> For applications that are based on a single image, define a new partition with the number 1.

Reviewer 5: Please apply only if "1" is what the user needs to input in a script/code file.
```suggestion
For applications that are based on a single image, define a new partition with the number ``1``.
```

For multi-image builds, define the subsequent partition to follow the last existing one.

Below are examples of MCUboot partition names for updating the nRF70 Series firmware patch, which vary depending on the platform and the number of cores used:

* For the nRF5340 DK in a single-core variant (without the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_1`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_1``.
* For the nRF5340 DK in a multi-core variant (with the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_2`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_2``.

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_adding_partitions:

Adding nRF70 series firmware patch partitions
---------------------------------------------

> The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUboot partitions (for the Application and Network Cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUboot partitions (for the Application and Network cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.
```

.. note::
    Please note that the actual configuration syntax for the Partition Manager will depend on the specific system and tools being used.
    The example provided is for illustrative purposes and may need to be adjusted to fit the actual configuration file format and syntax required by the Partition Manager in use.

Configuring build system
------------------------

To enable the DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, complete the following steps depending on the platform:

* For the nRF5340 DK without the Network Core:

    1. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU`` Kconfig option to ``y``.
    #. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``2``.
    #. For the MCUBoot child image, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``2``.

* For the nRF5340 DK with the Network Core:

    1. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU`` Kconfig option to ``y``.
    #. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.
    #. For the MCUBoot child image, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.

> For example, to build the sample with the DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch on the nRF5340 DK platform, which includes the network core image, run the following commands:

Reviewer 5: Just FYI, I noticed some inconsistencies (not just in your doc) on capitalisation of "Application/Network core". Am looking into this, and will get back to you on which to use.

* The external memory has sufficient capacity to accommodate the firmware patches.
  This includes additional space for potential patch upgrades, such as those required for DFU.
  The combined size of all firmware patches should not exceed 128 kB.
* MCUboot is enabled, and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option is set to ``y``.

Supported platforms
===================

The following platforms are supported:

* nRF5340 DK with nRF7002 EK as a shield

Preparing the application
=========================

The DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, when located in external memory, requires the creation of additional MCUboot partitions.
This can be accomplished using the Partition Manager by defining the necessary partition layout in the Partition Manager configuration file specific to your application.
For instructions on configuring basic partitions with the Partition Manager, refer to the :ref:`partition_manager` documentation.

The instructions in this guide assume you are using the Partition Manager and its associated configuration files.

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_mcuboot_partitions:

> Defining nRF70 series MCUBoot partitions

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Defining nRF70 Series MCUBoot partitions
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defining nRF70 Series MCUboot partitions
```
Caught another wrongly capitalized MCUboot thanks to this. :)

----------------------------------------

The number of MCUboot partitions required depends on the platform being used and its memory layout.
In addition to a partition dedicated to the nRF70 Series firmware patch, you will need to create specific partitions based on the platform:

* For applications that are based on a single image, define a new partition with the number ``1``.
* For multi-image builds, define the subsequent partition to follow the last existing one.

Below are examples of MCUboot partition names for updating the nRF70 Series firmware patch, which vary depending on the platform and the number of cores used:

* For the nRF5340 DK in a single-core variant (without the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_1`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_1``.

> * For the nRF5340 DK in a multi-core variant (with the network core): ``mcuboot_primary_2`` and ``mcuboot_secondary_2``.

Reviewer 4: what about *_3?

.. _nrf70_fw_patch_update_adding_partitions:

> Adding nRF70 series firmware patch partitions

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Adding nRF70 Series firmware patch partitions
```

---------------------------------------------

The examples below assume that there are two existing MCUboot partitions (for the application and network cores) and that the starting address of the free external memory space is ``0x12f000``.

To add the required partitions for the nRF70 Series firmware patch update, complete the following steps:

1. Create the ``nrf70_wifi_fw_mcuboot_pad`` partition for the MCUboot header.

>    This partition should start from the first available address in the external memory space and have a size equal to the value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_BLOCK_BUF_SIZE` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 4: this is not correct

Author: What is not correct in this sentence?

Reviewer 4: What relation does the pad section size have to do with the img block buffer size?

Author: Ok, the (pad + image) size must be aligned, right?

Reviewer 4: the start and end addresses must be aligned, the header size must be the size of the mcuboot header

        external_flash:
            address: 0x171000
            size: 0x68F000
            device: MX25R64
            region: external_flash

.. note::
    The actual configuration syntax for the Partition Manager will depend on the specific system and tools being used.
    The example provided is for illustrative purposes and may need to be adjusted to fit the actual configuration file format and syntax required by the Partition Manager in use.

Configuring build system
------------------------

To enable the DFU procedure for the nRF70 Series firmware patch, complete the following steps depending on the platform:

* For the nRF5340 DK without the network core:

    1. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU`` Kconfig option to ``y``.
    #. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``2``.
    #. For the MCUBoot child image, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``2``.

* For the nRF5340 DK with the network core:

    1. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU`` Kconfig option to ``y``.
    #. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.

>     #. For the MCUBoot child image, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER`` Kconfig option to ``3``.

Reviewer 4: nothing about 4

Author: It can be added as a follow-up after NCS 2.6.0, as @nvlsianpu mentioned above.

            ninja -C build

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

        1. When `building an application <How to build an application_>`_ as described in the |nRFVSC| documentation, follow the steps for setting up the build configuration.
        #. In the Add Build Configuration screen, click the Add argument button under the Extra CMake argument section.
        #. Add the following Kconfig options:

        .. code-block:: console

            -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002ek -DCONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER_ENABLED=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_PATCHES_EXT_FLASH_STORE=y -DCONFIG_NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU=y -DCONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER=3

If you want to use the :ref:`ug_multi_image` feature, you need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DFU_MULTI_IMAGE_MAX_IMAGE_COUNT` Kconfig option to one of the following values:

* For the nRF5340 DK without the network core: ``2``
* For the nRF5340 DK with the network core: ``3``

> 

Reviewer 4: as above

Author: It can be added as a follow-up after NCS 2.6.0, as @nvlsianpu mentioned above.
